## 10-2


```shloka-sa

न मे विदुः सुरगणाः प्रभवम् न महर्षयः ।
अहम् आदिर्हि देवानाम् महर्षीणाम् च सर्वषः ॥ २ ॥

```
```shloka-sa-hk

na me viduH suragaNAH prabhavam na maharSayaH |
aham Adirhi devAnAm maharSINAm ca sarvaSaH || 2 ||

```
`सुरगणाः` `[suragaNAH]` Neither the 
[gods](gods_and_other_powers) `न महर्षयः` `[na maharSayaH]` nor the great sages `मे विदुः` `[me viduH]` know Me. `अहम्` `[aham]` I am `आदिः हि` `[AdiH hi]` indeed the origin `सर्वषः` `[sarvaSaH]` of all the `देवानाम्` `[devAnAm]` [gods](gods_and_other_powers) `ंअहर्षीणाम् च` `[MaharSINAm ca]` and the great sages.


<a name='applnote_153'></a>
> Unfortunately, nobody knows the Lord



People have varying levels of ability and awareness to recognize the universe beyond their senses. A scientist may recognize the existence of an atom; a sage may recognize the spiritual force behind life. Yet, they do not know My greatness. They do not know Me, My real form, My name, My actions, My characteristics and so on. 

That's because I am the origin of all 
[gods](gods_and_other_powers)
 and great thinkers. I am the origin of their form, their knowledge and everything else. 
[Powerful people, gods](gods_and_other_powers)
 and great sages are in their positions due to their virtuous deeds. I have given them varying awareness in accordance with those deeds. 

Their awareness has limitations. With this limited knowledge, they do not know My characteristics in their true sense. 

The Lord's true characteristics cannot be recognized by thought, even by 
[powerful gods](gods_and_other_powers)
.

Next, the Lord says that the awareness of His true characteristics shall free us from our misfortune – Our misfortune prevents us from starting our journey of 
[bhakti](Chapter 7.md#bhakti_a_defn)
.


