## 10-3


```shloka-sa
यो माम् अजम् अनादिम् च वेत्ति लोकमहेश्वरम् ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
yo mAm ajam anAdim ca vetti lokamahezvaram |
```
```shloka-sa
असम्मूढः स मर्त्येषु सर्वपापैः प्रमुच्यते ॥ ३ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
asammUDhaH sa martyeSu sarvapApaiH pramucyate || 3 ||
```

`मर्त्येषु` `[martyeSu]` Among humans, `यो असम्मूढः वेत्ति` `[yo asammUDhaH vetti]` a person who is free of misconceptions knows `माम् अजम् अनादिम् च` `[mAm ajam anAdim ca]` Me to be without birth and without an origin, `लोकमहेश्वरम्` `[lokamahezvaram]` the Lord of the universe. `सः` `[saH]` Such a person `प्रमूच्यते` `[pramUcyate]` is freed from `सर्व पापैः` `[sarva pApaiH]` all misfortune.

The Lord is without birth, He was never born. In this He is distinct from all inanimate things that keep transforming. 
He is also distinct from the Self, which is attached to the material environment. The Self gets associated with the material world in accordance with its past deeds. This association is called 'birth'.
The Lord has no such birth - This distinction is described here with the word 
This is also evident from the 
In this Shloka, the Lord states - A person who knows Me in this way - as the Lord of the entire universe who is untouched by any flaw - is free of misconception. 
'Misconception' is to consider the Lord as similar to something else. Unfortunately, such misconceptions prevent the start of 
Any other wealthy or powerful leader is like another human. The person has attained that wealth and power due to deeds committed in the past. Same is the case with the 
Similarly, a wealthy person also belongs to the same category of people who are bound to the environment.
The Lord of the universe is distinct from all causes and effects we see in inanimate things. He is distinct from all conscious beings, whether 
The Lord has the distinction of having absolute control, being the terminator of all misfortune, the single supreme controller and the single abode of an infinite variety of abundant favorable qualities. The person who knows the Lord in this way doesn’t think of the Lord as being similar to something else. This person is completely free of all misconceptions and misfortune.
In this way, the Lord described the removal of misfortune that prevents the birth of 
Next, the Lord describes the growth of devotion by studying His attributes, His wealth and the world of auspicious qualities that reside in Him.



