## 13-12


```shloka-sa
ज्ञेयम् यत् तत् प्रवक्ष्यामि यत् ज्ञात्वा अमृतम् अश्नुते ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
jJeyam yat tat pravakSyAmi yat jJAtvA amRtam aznute |
```
```shloka-sa
अनादिमत् परम् ब्रह्म न सत् तत् नासदुच्यते ॥ १२ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
anAdimat param brahma na sat tat nAsaducyate || 12 ||
```

`प्रवक्ष्यामि` `[pravakSyAmi]` I will explain `तत् यत् ज्ञेयम्` `[tat yat jJeyam]` that awareness, `ज्ञात्वा यत्` `[jJAtvA yat]` with which `अमृतम् अश्नुते` `[amRtam aznute]` people achieve

The Lord continues - 
The Self is always evident to us. Its nature must be grasped by the 
I will clarify the nature of the Self now. You will grasp the Self with this knowledge. 
By nature, the Self is not subject to the laws of the material world. It is free of birth, old age and death. It has no beginning, likewise no ending either. This is said in 
The Self realizes My supremacy, as I said in Chap.7#5: ‘Know My ultimate nature in the form of a conscious being, by whom this world is sustained’
By being the 
And in 
The knowledge in the Self is infinite. It is distinct from the body and not bound by it. As said in 
The word 
The last part of this Shloka says - 'This state is not the one in which the Self is bound to this environment. It is also not the state when the Self is present in the 
When 
This interpretation is supported by the scriptures:
 '



The terms 'cause' and 'effect' are applicable to the ignorance that sticks to the Self, by the influence of past actions. They are not characteristic of the Self. Hence, these terms don't describe the nature of the Self.
The phrase '
Before creation, the Lord had His body (the universe) in subtle form. That was a state in which nothing could be distinguished by a name. Even in this state, the Self is still bound to the material world due to its actions. That does not describe its true nature.

