## 14-3


```shloka-sa
मम योनिः महत् ब्रह्म तस्मिन् गर्भम् दधाम्यहम् ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
mama yoniH mahat brahma tasmin garbham dadhAmyaham |
```
```shloka-sa
सम्भवः सर्व भूतानाम् ततो भवति भारत ॥ ३ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
sambhavaH sarva bhUtAnAm tato bhavati bhArata || 3 ||
```

`भारत` `[bhArata]` Arjuna, `ब्रह्म` `[brahma]` the universe `मम योनिः` `[mama yoniH]` it is My womb. `महत्` `[mahat]` It is a manifestation of the plasma that resulted from

My universe is the origin from which everything came into being. That is My womb. In that, I infuse consciousness and give birth. The Lord described this in Chap.7#4 by explaining His material attribute: 'This universe of mine is divided into eight categories: Solids, liquids, gasses, energy, space, mind, the gross collections and the notion of individuality.'
Before creation, the Lord’s inanimate matter exists as the 
Since it expands into this huge universe, it's called as 
It is not common to use the word 
In the scriptures, the universe has been referred to by the word 
The inanimate matter in the material world is one attribute of the Lord. The conscious Self is the other. 
The Self is described to be beyond the material environment in Chap.7#5: ‘My ultimate nature is distinct from the universe. It is in the form of a conscious being by whom this world is sustained’. This supreme attribute of the Lord has been described as the set of all that’s conscious. 
The conscious Self, when infused in the environment, acts as the seed to create all beings. This is how these beings are created in the womb. 
The Lord continues - 'In the huge universe, which is My inanimate womb, I give birth – I bring together this environment and the collection of consciousness.
The inanimate environment is experienced; The Self is the one who experiences – this attribute of Mine brings consciousness to the world. I bring the Self and its environment together. 
Then, all beings, right from the principal engineer of the universe down to a germ, come into being from My two attributes - the environment and the Self. They are joined by My will'.
Next, the Lord says that even after creating this universe, He continues to bring together His inanimate and conscious attributes in each being that is born.

