## 15-11


```shloka-sa
यतन्तो योगिनः चैनम् पश्यन्ति आत्मनि अवस्थितम् ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
yatanto yoginaH cainam pazyanti Atmani avasthitam |
```
```shloka-sa
यतन्तोऽपि अकृतात्मानो नैनम् पश्यन्ति अचेतसः ॥ ११ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
yatanto'pi akRtAtmAno nainam pazyanti acetasaH || 11 ||
```

`योगिनः` `[yoginaH]` Those who realize their relationship with the Lord `यतन्तः` `[yatantaH]` and persevere in its practice `एनम् पश्यन्ति` `[enam pazyanti]` shall see the Self `आत्मनि अवस्थितम्` `[Atmani avasthitam]` present in themselves. `च` `[ca]` On the other hand, `अकृतात्मानः` `[akRtAtmAnaH]` those who haven’t

Having 
Others who haven’t 
Up until now, it was explained that light removes darkness. Darkness prevents material stimuli from coming into contact with our sense organs. The sun, the moon and sources of light such as fire get rid of darkness, enabling us to perceive the material world. In this way, light enables the eye to sense the material world. 
On the other hand, the Self illuminates everything, even the sources of light. Being the light of awareness, it knows and experiences everything. 
Previously, it was said that the Self is an attribute of the Lord, both in its free form as well as in its bound form: Chap.15#6 said 'After reaching this free state of being, they do not return. That abode is My supreme attribute'. Chap15#7 said 'In this material world, where every Self is bound in the environment, the ever-existing Self is definitely a part of Me'.



Next, the Lord states that the light given by luminous sources such as the sun, which is a special outcome of material creation, is also His attribute.

