## 18-46


```shloka-sa
यतः प्रवृत्तिः भूतानाम् येन सर्वम् इदम् ततम् ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
yataH pravRttiH bhUtAnAm yena sarvam idam tatam |
```
```shloka-sa
स्वकर्मणा तम् अभ्यर्च्य सिद्धिम् विन्दति मानवः ॥ ४६ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
svakarmaNA tam abhyarcya siddhim vindati mAnavaH || 46 ||
```

`मानवः` `[mAnavaH]` Any human being `विन्दति` `[vindati]` attains `सिद्धिम्` `[siddhim]` the goal `अभ्यर्च्य` `[abhyarcya]` by worshipping `तम्` `[tam]` Him `स्वकर्मणा` `[svakarmaNA]` with his own work - `येन` `[yena]` He, by whom `सर्वम् इदम्` `[sarvam idam]` all this `ततम्` `[tatam]` is pervaded, `यतः` `[yataH]` from whom `भूतानाम्` `[bhUtAnAm]` all beings get `प्रवृत्तिः` `[pravRttiH]` their ability to commence action.

‘By whom all this is pervaded, from where all beings get their ability to commence action right from birth’ - He is The Lord. 
He says 'I am the One who is situated in this way. I sit as the essence of every power. A human being worships Me in this manner, with his own work. Such a person pleases Me and attains the goal of achieving Me. As I said before, everything comes from Me and everything is pervaded by Me'.
As said in Chap.7#6 and Chap.7#7: I am the creator and the destroyer of the entire universe. There is absolutely nothing else that is superior to Me.
Chap.9#4: This whole world is pervaded by Me, while My form is not perceptible.
Chap.9#10: The material environment manifests as this world, with all its stationary and mobile beings according to My will. I am the supreme controller. 
Chap.10#8: I am the origin of everything; Every entity gets stimulated with the initiative given by Me.
- In all these places in the Gita, The Lord has described Himself as the One who is to be worshipped by all actions.

