## 18-7


```shloka-sa
नियतस्य तु संन्यासः कर्मणः नोपपद्यते ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
niyatasya tu saMnyAsaH karmaNaH nopapadyate |
```
```shloka-sa
मोहात् तस्य परित्यागः तामसः परिकीर्तितः ॥ ७ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
mohAt tasya parityAgaH tAmasaH parikIrtitaH || 7 ||
```

`तु` `[tu]` On the other hand, `संन्यासः` `[saMnyAsaH]` the renunciation `नित्यस्य कर्मणः` `[nityasya karmaNaH]` of routine, prescribed activities `न उपपद्यते` `[na upapadyate]` is not appropriate. `परित्यागः` `[parityAgaH]` Giving them up `मोहात्` `[mohAt]` in confusion `परिकीर्तितः` `[parikIrtitaH]` is said to be `तामसः` `[tAmasaH]` in the quality of



It isn’t appropriate to renounce or give up routine and prescribed activities. These are activities such as eating, breathing and worshipping. 
As said in Chap.3#8: 'Even the journey through your body wouldn't be achieved when you are inactive' - Don't give up activities in this journey through your body. This journey itself works to gain the knowledge that 
In this way, when the body is built from food other than the food that is derived from worship, it acts as a contaminant and forms the base of false knowledge. 
Food nourishes the mind, as said in 
Thus, it is learnt that knowledge to realize the Self rests on the sanctity of the food we consume.
That's why it's not appropriate to give up routine, prescribed activities in this journey through the body. Routine activities such as eating and prescribed activities such as worship are meant for knowing the Self. 
The quality of 
Ignorance is made from misconceptions that repel knowledge. Further in this chapter, it is said in Chap.18#32: 'People are overwhelmed by the quality of 
In this way, misconceptions result in giving up routine and prescribed activities.

