## 7-14


```shloka-sa
दैवी ह्येषा गुणमयी मम माया दुरत्यया ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
daivI hyeSA guNamayI mama mAyA duratyayA |
```

`एषा` `[eSA]` These `मम दैवी माया` `[mama daivI mAyA]` divine creations of Mine `गुणमयी` `[guNamayI]` are pervaded by the

These material creations are 'divine' because they are created by the Lord for the Lord's entertainment. Due to this, they are impossible to cross over. The word 
For instance, the word 

Translated, it means: 'Then, being instructed by the Lord, the unparalleled disk arrived to protect him (to protect Pralhad). Each one of the thousands of creations and actions of the wicked were destroyed by this quick-spinning weapon that is a blazing ring known as Sudarshana, while protecting the boy’
Used in this way, the word 
There are other contexts where this word is used to denote 'magic', a certain spell or the effect of medicines. Since these things make our mind to perceive various meanings, they are denoted by the word 
In the 



Hence, being deluded by the Lord's material creations, the beings of this world do not know the nature of the Lord, who has a form that is limitless and unbroken joy.
Now The Lord describes the method to free ourselves from the delusion brought about by material experiences -


```shloka-sa
मामेव ये प्रपद्यन्ते मायामेताम् तरन्ति ते ॥ १४ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
mAmeva ye prapadyante mAyAmetAm taranti te || 14 ||
```

`ये` `[ye]` The people who `प्रपद्यन्ते` `[prapadyante]` surrender `मामेव` `[mAmeva]` exclusively to Me `ते तरन्ति` `[te taranti]` - they will cross over `एताम् मायाम्` `[etAm mAyAm]` this material world.

I am The Lord whose intent is always fulfilled. I am extremely kind, the refuge of the entire universe. I provide refuge without considering any special qualities of anyone. Those who surrender and take refuge in Me alone will cross over My material world that’s pervaded by the 
Now He explains why everyone does not surrender to the Lord, even though such surrender would bring them the reward of adoring the Lord and being close to Him.

