## 7-19


```shloka-sa
बहूनाम् जन्मनाम् अन्ते ज्ञानवान् माम् प्रपद्यते ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
bahUnAm janmanAm ante jJAnavAn mAm prapadyate |
```
```shloka-sa
वासुदेवः सर्वम् इति स महात्मा सुदुर्लभः ॥ १९ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
vAsudevaH sarvam iti sa mahAtmA sudurlabhaH || 19 ||
```

`अन्ते` `[ante]` At the end of `बहूनाम् जन्मनाम्` `[bahUnAm janmanAm]` many births, `ज्ञानवान्` `[jJAnavAn]` a

This surrender, which precedes the joy of being in the service the Lord and the joy of knowing the true Self, is not the result of a small number of virtuous births. Indeed, at the conclusion of many virtuous births, a person comes to know that his primary source of joy is in being of service to Lord Krishna alone. 
From that point onwards, he comes to know about his own nature, state of being and his activities. He gains knowledge that the Lord is greater than all the countless great qualities put together.
Having gained such knowledge, he believes - 'Lord Krishna is the ultimate goal. He is also the means to arrive at that goal. Though there are many other desires, the Lord Himself is all of that' - With this conviction, he surrenders to Me and dedicates himself to My service. This is a great person. Such people are hard to find in this world.
This is indeed the meaning of the phrase 'Lord Vasudeva is everything' – Starting with Chap7#17 'I am dear to this knowledgeable person, in a way that is definitely beyond description' and Chap7#18 'Keeping Me in his thoughts always, he considers Me as the ultimate achievement and takes refuge in Me'. These Shlokas gave the description of the 
The fact that all conscious and non-conscious beings are 
Further, the dependence of these 
The person who knows all this is termed as '
Again, the Lord emphasizes that the 

