## 7-6


```shloka-sa
एतत् योनीनि भूतानि सर्वाणि इत्युपधारय ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
etat yonIni bhUtAni sarvANi ityupadhAraya |
```
```shloka-sa
अहम् कृत्स्नस्य जगतः प्रभवः प्रलयस्तथा ॥ ६ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
aham kRtsnasya jagataH prabhavaH pralayastathA || 6 ||
```

`उपधारय` `[upadhAraya]` Bear in mind that `सर्वाणि भूतानि` `[sarvANi bhUtAni]` all beings `एतत् योनीनि` `[etat yonIni]` owe their existence to the two natures. `तथा` `[tathA]` In this way, `अहम्` `[aham]` I am `प्रभवः प्रलयः` `[prabhavaH pralayaH]` the creator and the destroyer `कृत्स्नस्य जगतः` `[kRtsnasya jagataH]` of the entire universe.

I am an aggregate of these conscious and non-conscious beings. Know that all beings, right from the 
In fact, the entire universe has My 
This fact - that the Lord is the basis for all of nature's beings, all of them being an aggregation of things that perceive and things that don't - is established by statements in the scriptures:
 The gross elements perish and settle in the subtle. The subtle rests in enlightenment. Enlightenment rests in darkness. Darkness becomes one with the Supreme Lord.
 From Lord Vishnu's form, there arise two forms - the supreme and the subject beings.
,31: The nature that was described by Me, in both its gross and subtle forms, along with the subject beings perish into the Supreme Lord. The Supreme Lord is the basis for the existence of every being and is the ultimate controller. The Supreme Lord, known by the name of Vishnu, is praised by verses in the Vedas and Vedanta.
These were some of the scriptures describing the relation of the universe to the Lord.

