## 8-22


```shloka-sa
पुरुषः स परः पार्थ भक्त्या लभ्यस्तु अनन्यया ।
```
```shloka-sa-hk
puruSaH sa paraH pArtha bhaktyA labhyastu ananyayA |
```
```shloka-sa
यस्यान्तःस्थानि भूतानि येन सर्वमिदम् ततम् ॥ २२ ॥
```
```shloka-sa-hk
yasyAntaHsthAni bhUtAni yena sarvamidam tatam || 22 ||
```

`पार्थ` `[pArtha]` Arjuna, `यस्य अन्तः` `[yasya antaH]` the person in whom `स्थानि भूतानि` `[sthAni bhUtAni]` all beings exist, `येन सर्वम् इदम्` `[yena sarvam idam]` by whom all this `ततम्` `[tatam]` is pervaded, `स परः पुरुषः` `[sa paraH puruSaH]` that ultimate person `लभ्यः` `[labhyaH]` is obtained by `अनन्या भक्त्या` `[ananyA bhaktyA]` undistracted devotion, not being attached to anything else.

The Lord has already described Himself in the following Shlokas:
Chap.7#7: ‘There is absolutely nothing else that is beyond Me. All of this is mounted in Me, just as beads are strung in a string’
Chap.7#13: ‘I am beyond the 



All beings exist inside the Lord. He is the ultimate being who pervades everything. 
He can be obtained through devotion, practiced without attachment towards anything else - as said in Chap.8#14: ‘I am easily available to a person who thinks about Me at all times, right from the time he starts his journey to achieve Me. He is My devoted follower. He doesn't let his mind wander among other subjects. He is always attached to Me.’
The previous Shloka described the person who yearns to know the true nature of the Self – this person realizes the true nature of the Self and the Lord presiding over it. In this Shloka, The Lord described a person who yearns for the Lord Himself. Next, the Lord describes the path taken by both of them when they depart from the body.
Both types of people go on the ‘path of luster’. This path doesn’t put them on the inevitable cycle of return.
There are two possible paths when we depart from our body. One path leads to rebirth, while the other leads to freedom from birth and death. The one that leads to rebirth is called 
The scriptures describe their path:
The 
It also says that the path doesn’t force you to return. 
The knowledge described above in the 
Further in the 
In this way, The Lord showed the distinction between the Self and the environment. We need to rise above the environment and gain consciousness that’s separate from the environment. In this way we take the path of luster and don’t need to return.
Having realized the true nature of the Self, a person knows that it has the Lord as its Self. The Self exists only for the Lord’s purpose. This is told in the [br’hadArAnyaka]. With this awareness, he gains a form that is equal to attaining the Lord Himself – just like a person who intends to attain the Lord directly.

